





Archive of stuff I don't need to post

***

***

(To be clear, it is possible that 'we' know these things. This is not the kind of blog post where I assiduously research a topic then bring you my answers; it is the kind of blog post where I idly speculate aloud about what dogs are like even though I am in the one of the lower echelons of dog knowledge available, because that's what I think blogs should be like sometimes.)


Do the facial expressions of humans? I know that at some level I must have been designed to understand human facial expressions, but  it seems like i can't have beene at a more detailede level, e.g. i'm inclined to read slightly different smiles with a lot of flavor and significance, and am i raelly likely to somehow have evolved to do that?

(I mean, great cross-dolphin-human understanding seems ambitious, but even in a pet-human type relationship, it seems tragic to every day be misunderstanding the most basic sentiments of the other.)


***



I think many people have the sense that during the pandemic nothing is changing.

Nothing is changing. Every day is the same.

During covid, it seems like every day is the same more. How can we have more interesetingness in our lives.

There seems to be a common sense in the pandemic of each day being the same, and a craving for variety and flavor which is hard to bring in to the same set of rooms. ('Last week we went on a date up the hill. This week we went on a date to the living room. Next week, maybe your room?')

But each person in their own apartment is having a different experience of it. For me every day being the same might mean looking for things to blog about and worrying that I can't read fast enough and turning on and off my time logger and dancing in my garage and procrastinating by looking at Twitter or playing Sporcle. Whereas every day being the same for you is probably something different, which if I did for a day would be interesting.

Which means that many experiences are available, in one's apartment. If one day you behaved like the man across the street all day, instead of like yourself, you would see all kinds of new things.


***

Bonus question: if the blue clay can end up hotter than the red clay, why can't fridges work like this? Why do we expect a heat death of the universe where the temperature of all things is equilibrated?



***
After 'today was great in post', cut for fraughtness and not being obviously true if we are asking the big question of should i say 'i love you' but seems like the true thing to say in context:

I loved my boyfriend.

***
I woke from a dream of a mysterious woman who told me that she had met me some years ago, and fallen in love with me, and found her way back after all this time, and wanted to know, would I be with her? I explained that I was in a monogamous relationship, but the issue felt unsettled. In the confusion of waking up, it seemed like I should alert my boyfriend to this situation. He was already up writing, and didn't seem super interested.

Today I was unhappy. Sometimes I think I develop a headache out of unhappiness.



***
fritos: . Maybe hard tube that ejects fritos from the top as you press the bottom? or
mi goreng: maybe tear across section of packet where opening is narrowed to a spout? empirical experimentation to get packet that doesn't explode when used
chips: chopsticks

other soups?
trader joe's things
things i get for AI Impacts
things i used to get from target when i lived with scott
soppa things?



is there:
single serve kneckes
single serve unsulphered apricots
single serve dried pinapple


***


This blog is intended to manifest my tentative answer.

[^1] I'm not sure whether 'genuine self' makes sense as a concept, but I think the question does anyway.

This is related to conflict theory vs. error theory, and

It is better for the epistemic economy of the world to have full views of people

It is related to the issue of everything being affiliated with everything


***

Today was great. I loved my boyfriend. He took care of me when I was gasping with headache. He put all the things around me - tea and sugar in a bowl and apple sauce and little packets of MeWe peanut butter and painkillers. He rubbed my neck, and looked in my eyes, and talked to me about what I care about. I ate the sugar and the tea. I played Sporcle and learned about historic dates and American presidents, and felt fine about it. I took some xanax, in case my headache was being worsened by my distress about it. I felt drunk.
***


I think the whole discussion lacks


I don't see how lack of trust in institutions can

***

When I was younger, I think I assumed this was just a basic cost that everyone had to pay, to have the necessary background knowledge to hear the story. But that is clearly false, so I now suppose that it is intentional, and further posit that probably other people like it, then. My boyfriend, for instance, does not hate these bits of books. He says that he doesn't imagine them, so that's interesting.
***





Rachel Maddow show blames the federal government, but isn't very specific about their failures.  But first complaint is that they are doing it first-come-first-served, causing massive lines and by appointment but appointments are hard to get. (Maybe just illustrating that things are bad?) People are unable to use many.

Federal govt has done none of advance work. No volunteer armies of vaccinators. No federal vaccination centers.


They draw attention to xxx's public radio pleas that the public get vaccinated, as if these were what made this episode incredible. And maybe they were, in the sense that had he not spoken in public, the episode wouldn't have occurred. But I find it hard to believe that if the city were prepared to vaccinate ten times as many people per day as it is, they would struggle to find takers.

It would take about six and a half years to vaccinate all 19 million New Yorkers at the current rate of eight thousand per day, or about seven weeks to do it at 1947-speeds.


  Some differences:
  - In 1947, there was no warning. The vaccination project had to begin as soon as that the disease appeared in the city. The health commissioner held a news conference publicly asking residents to be vaccinated on 2pm of the day a case was discovered in the city. In 2021, there were about ten months to prepare. (No! That's the wrong direction of difference!)
  - In 1947, the message had to reach people via the radio,



  would mean ending that at closer to seventy thousand more deaths[^2], instead of however many we get if covid mostly runs its course.[^3]
  [^2]: 47 days x 3k deaths / 2 = ~70k deaths (assuming pessimistically that the death rate moves linearly toward zero in line with the fraction vaccinated)
  [^3]:


***

Reuters calls Mayor Deblasio's plan to vaccinate a million New Yorkers by the end of the month (that is, an average of twenty thousand per day), 'ambitious'.

***

These are at the scale of a personal life, but at a higher level many jobs are also this: if you work for your whole life to uphold the law, or to mend ill patients, or to sell objects for other people to use in their plans, in a sense you are maintaining a good situation for all rather than shooting for some end goal. It's actually hard for me to think of jobs right now that aren't like this. Maybe art is sometimes created as its own end, though often it is also intended to better the situation for people working on other things.  Perhaps humanity is not within sight of an end goal that


***

Today I spent a lot of the day trying to make a neural net that could recognize handwritten digits. I actually made the neural net, it was just very stuck on the t didn't. It mostly seemed actively opposed to recognizing handwritten digits. It would start out recognizing them at about the rate of chance, and incrementally become worse.

***

It also strikes me as kind of awesome that sometimes when two people privately made love in the 1700s, it left a mark on the world that allows something of their meeting to be inferred in 2020, even while everything else about them might be forgotten. For instance,

***


Having exhausting the main crunch in a mouthful, you are left not with a slurry, but with something pleasing to chew further&mdash;a textured rubble of seed meal, one supposes, satisfying and nutty. All the while with the bright taste of herbs, that veers into a lasting burning. Not of chili, but of flavor. You want to crush the last seeds with your teeth, to get the flavor. You want to find the last fragments lost in your cheeks.
a slight burning afterward, not of hot spice, but of flavor. I haven't learned the correspondencee between tastes and spice names, except a few like cinnamon. But this is one of those ones I think where you are biting into the pungent dried twigs of some plant.



Roughly something like this:


I also estimate:
- about 4 (0.3-30) uCov from a 30 item grocery order
- about 1.7 cases per week (0.14 to 13)


Issues:
- probably every time someoen with covid touches a surface it becomes some amount infectious, and we just missed all that
- Caution already happening in these cases, so for instance the low chance of a surface having covid on it if someone with covid touched it may well be because people are cleaning surfaces often. We are assuming though that if YOU touch any of these things, you are putting your hands on your face imminently
- looks like two different grocery store surfaces were infectious on the same day, suggesting one person was very spready - does that matter somehow?


While it is unpleasant and so on to put up crappy work that people might trust and ruin their lives over, I think a) I need to accept that I'm in the 99th percentile of caution about covid and the 99th percentile of love of spreadsheets and I haven't done this in months, and still don't want to, and don't have enough time to do a good job of it. So realistically it is probably not replacing better work that is about to happen. Also, I'm not sure that it should discourage such things on net. My model probably sucks, and I didn't even read the paper. I think this is a pretty low bar for someone to straightforwardly beat. I've done a lot of the work, and they can just use it if they want.


***end archive***




paul point that you can't provide public goods without govt or something

***

how do i decide what to blog? involves imaginary canon

how do i decide what to draw? doesn't involve drawing it in my head

***
choose a selection of blogs that you want to make a blogosphere and respond to them aggressively

tell ajeya to get blogging

do group post with ajeya and eckersley about SF?

prompt Ajeya to start blog, then link to it

***

Those who think the inexorable pull of incentives will always win out forget that there is a social landscape on top of the brute sugar landscape, and the incentive gradients are largely made by us. There is an incentive to lie and steal all the time, ignoring social effects, but almost nobody does. Sure, people probably won't be virtuous continually where nobody else cares, but if nobody cared, the cause would be doomed anyway. And people are well able to lift their willingness to judge as a first un incentivised incentive.


***



Seems like there is an interesting pattern where in general, when we engineer a thing, we will use a lot more of resources that we do have, to replace things that are harder. So our designs will require different baskets of goods. Maybe we will always be inclined to call this ‘brute forcing’ it, because it will involve more of things that we think of as easy, because we have them (e.g. energy, material).
re daniel's post about birds etc





it would be cool if there were a guidebook for living in society. Not like for pragmatically how to succeed, but for things like the rules of society, but in a usefully laid out fashion. e.g. if you want to start a company, this is how. If you have a great idea for how ketchup should be packageed, this is where to send it (ok, that isn't so much a rule of society, as how it functions in practice, but still is like how it works, not tips for your success).

There are various things that people do, that I don't have the first idea how to do. For instance, sell a design for ketchup packaging.

it is interesting to me that theh ancient civilizations more strike me as similar
to modern rich places but with randomly less tech than similar to poor places
like, they look grand. in some sense they were presumably poorer than preseent-day slum-livers
(is that true?) But the slums dont have monuments and art and a general vibe of
celebration and pride. And they don't build great structures like this https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sanitation_of_the_Indus_Valley_Civilisation#/media/File:Dholavira1.JPG
Why are the poor today worse in some sense than the even poorer (i.e. somewhat well off?) of five thousand years ago?

Why does Minoa have pottery better than I can get from Amazon? It looks like I can get some of it from Etsy, but it is expensive. If people living when
the per person GDP was xxx can afford a pot like this, shouldn't I be able to get a few of them?

How wealthy am I compared to the King of Knossos?

How much good does a random job do?

Suppose we would like to be able to compare random jobs and x-risk things on x-risk front, via all manner of things making the world
more stable and good. How do we do that?

why does 'trying to change the system from within' imply incrementalism, and radically changing the system suggests violence and action outside of the rules? Can't we have rules for radically changing the system?

could a shared doc that everyone can edit, reviewing the literature on e.g. touching things, or long covid, be hugely valuable? It seems like microcovid.org could be hugely valuable. What else are we all individually calculating?

Shouldn't there be something really easy to do with gpt-3 that is like automating reasoning, by just being reasonable and brainstorming etc? e.g. break a question down into parts, answer the parts? I guess that is what Andreas is doing.

It usually seems weird to me that our way of deciding a vast number of complicated policy issues is to all vote for which person we don't really trust or like will decide all of them. Watching people decide how to vote on the various California ballot propositions makes me think a very salient way to deal with being asked to vote on on some obscure issue is to trust someone else who you think has similar views to you. This makes me wonder if that is how we got to the thing that doesn't make sense to me. What if we had a system where everyone gets a vote on everything, but when you vote you can write 'whatever bob smith says'. Thus you can't really sell your vote becausee eyou still hav eto go, and can't provee you wrot eanything in particular, but if you do trust bob smith, you can do that. and if bob smith thinks a lot of peopel will do what he says, he can be careful. bob smith can also write someoene eeelse, in which case all of bob smith's votse go to them. but what if it was just an ongoing thing, wheree every day's issues get decided by everyone's votes, but you can set up a peerson to delegate to, but you can also change which pereson it is with a day's notice if you don't like what your guy is voting.

people don't often say 'this thing is bad, we should hate epeople for it' instead of 'it should be illegal'

re tim's advertising thing, seems like we should have rich pay, poor get it for free, since it is free on the emargin.
i think we should hate people for advertising. joee says its lke signaling, it's like ewater. I say, it's like lying - it would be the water, but it isn't because we look down on it.

interesting to ask how hating things is different from banning them. I feel like advertising should be hated not banned, because banning seems like the old dike problem, and while hating seems a bit like ethat, you automatically get the flexible intleligenece of people spotting the holes, just as the flexible einteelligence makes them and exploits them, instead of the glacial legal system.

interesting to look at 'behavior patterns' as very small units where there are choices, and people behave differently. Like, to actually spot some.

is discourse getting worse?

While it feels wrong to talk about something other than the election at the moment, I actually have much better things to say on the topic of 'should you watch Hamilton?' Is it ever really wrong to encourage other people to watch or listen to Hamilton? I didn't watch Hamilton until after years of being informed by people that I should, and while had zero gratitude for this at the time,

does the impact of a thing 'reach back in time' and make it unlikely?

seriousness and sincerity: Joe said that recently people are more sincere again, and less ironic, e.g. the social justice people. Perhaps they are sincere in a way, but they don't read as serious to me, though they have a serious tone. The conversation is too much about convincing and talking right. At least that is how I feel as I go close to it -- I fantasize about what to say to have the right, compelling effect on the audience--it is too much an act to be sincere, or to be the sort of serious where you put your soul into it as if everything is at stake so much that it is alright for you to lose, instead of frowning as if you can't lose.

links

Night time is like a fresh empty page in a notebook. Daytime is like a magazine.

I'm afraid of producing popular criticism, online. A big reason that I'm afraid is that I'm associated with various people and things. If, for instance, I were to

If you teach people not to say bad views, then they never take them to the floor and never see how they fare, and they are stuck with those views forever, having learned only not to talk. Which is so much worse than that person coming to a good understanding of the situation. They are living both mistaken and oppressed, when they could say the good views by

I think if people really believed in their views, and in other people, they would be happy for freedom of speech, since the their ideas have an advantage in the arena of discussion, of being right. Instead people often move to fight in the arena of social influence or law instead, where the truth of an idea is irrelevant to its xxxtriumph. Perhaps they just figure they may as well draw every weapon, since everyone will. But if the other side wants to withdraw and keep it to the first arena, why not do it? Do the people opposing free speech believe in what they are saying? Do they believe that it is literally true, or just that it is 'to be said'?

Suppose that good people can believe fairly bad things if they are ignorant or mistaken. That is, people are not born with supernatural perfect knowledge of social policy.
- seems bad then to punish them aggressively if they are wrong once
- preventing discussion of topics that you think it is important to be right about seems counterproductive
- trying to replace discussion with guilting and social pressure seems likely to produce a worse outcome, where people grow up still not understanding why the bad view is bad, doing some combination of secretly harboring it and avoiding thinking about the question where they know they see no problem with the bad answer, and generally feel oppressed and threatened.

It's interesting how minds can just make up structures, like 'work time' and then they feel real. I think my mind maybe does this too much. e.g. OCD around power plugs. But they are the same as things that are real, but have to be constructed by your mind relatively abstractly. (Which is to say, the same as everything, basically). For instance, you might have the shocking realization that murder is just a thing that you have drawn a magic line around in your mind, but really if you do it its' just some physical moves like any other. But really it is important and different to kill someone, it's just not immediately sensable, because it is a feature of a larger space of stuff, so your mind does have to construct the object in a more ghostly way, if it is to be in your physical world. I guess perhaps the oddity is that abstract things do get parsed as sort of in the physical world. The line between your property and the neighbor's property lurks there in front of you, though the grass is just the same. Putting your hand on someone's leg might feel surreal.

There is a common phenomenon where people get messages, then fail to respond to them, then feel bad. Was that a thing with letters or telegrams, or other older communication methods? Is it just that there are so many messages now, because they are so easy to send? Could email have gone a different way? It seems like I believe it involves implied norms, that I never agreed to. For instance, if someone writes me a personal message, I should not delete it without reading it, unless they are in particularly poor standing with me. If someone sends me a message asking me to do something, I should do it in a timely fashion, if it is a reasonable request and they are in good standing. If I write to someone, I should make it less terse than 'ok.'. At least, many people seem to constantly feel bad for failing to uphold *some* standards that are I guess implicitly bought into by having an email address. (And not having an email address would be pretty wild.) Is this chance, and we could instead have developed the norm that nobody responds to emails mostly, or that responding in about a month is the norm, or that its fine to be very terse, like text messages. Or the norm that you are meant to respond within a few seconds, or consider it dead, like verbal speech. I don't think so actually - I think the norms are implied by the length and difficulty and permanence of the form. Could we have a better form then? What if instead of having emails, I have office hours once a week, where if you want to ask me to read your thing or come to your conference or whatever you can drop in and chat about it verbally?

new plant for blog

just a word for the kind of tragedy that is spread out over lots of people



In general, I think we have a lot of confidence in our moral feelings, that is utterly undermined by e.g. slavery and torture of past society. They have totally lost all credibility. The only reason they have any credibility is that we have nothing else to go on. And for some reason still trust our moral feeling that there is morality at all.

should you do things where you think the future should punish you? but given that they probably won't, it is for the greater good?

it is interesting that people very much do not want to murder other people, e.g. if there is a thing they could do, but it has like a 20% chance of killing someone, people will decidedly not do it, under normal circumstances. But in these kind of philosophical thought experiment cases, e.g. 'not having a child is the same as murder', they surely can't be that confident that it isn't murder, and they are not generally very serious about it.

****

Most people get their ethics from a combination of trusting what is normally done, and doing what they feel is right. As far as I'm concerned, this has been utterly discredited as a reliable source of ethical advice, because it doesn't seem to have changed substantially since it delivered to the average person slavery or genocide as standard geopolitical strategy, or rape and torture as entertainment.
I don't know of a better source, for a typical non-professional-ethicist person. But given its intense fallibility, I don't think any serious person should be moralizing about other people disagreeing with them on points of morality.

***

I like this elephant seal. Some thoughts:
- This creature has a gigantic nose because massive numbers of similar creatures with somewhat smaller noses died or had less luck in the dating market. How wild and tragic.
- The seal appears to have an air of alert contented readiness that seems rare, and one might think would be even rarer in those facing the difficulties and hardships of being a 21st Century elephant seal, e.g. being constrained to lying down while talking.

***

it feels shameful to fail. but most of trying is failing, in the world.

***

we talk as if values basically determine what will get done. But in practice, looking at people, their actions are much more determined by their opportunities and the prices of things. Because I guess you basically do the same thing, until you cash out, because of instrumental values? Not sure. My guess is that when people cash out, how they do so is very dependent on their opportunities as well. e.g. if there is a pizza shop in front of them, their values might determine whether they get pineapple pizza or pepperoni pizza, and if they are at a poetry workshop, their values might determine whether they write something in rhyming couplets or not, but they aren't going to write something in rhyming couplets at the pizza restaurant, for a very large space of values. They might earlier decide whether to go to the pizza restaurant or the poetry workshop based on their values, but mostly if the two are pretty salient. For instance, if their friend says 'do you want to get pizza?' and they already have plans to go to a poetry workshop. (In which case, actually their response is probably also strongly influenced by how costly it is to abandon the workshop.) But if they hadn't decided what to do, and their friend asks if they want to get pizza, there is a minuscule chance of them suddenly go to a poetry workshop, and a fairly high chance of them getting pizza. You might say that this is just the person's valuing friendship manifesting, and if you compared to an unfriendly person, they would be no more likely to get pizza then than go to a poetry workshop then. But ??

This is related to AI that makes it easy to manifest some goals more than others, rather than having goals itself


***



if you aren't doing the demonstrably best of all possible options, you are failing.

***

One alternate model I think about is that of the two-choice choose your own adventure, where you can choose to do things that alter your future choices, but if you don't, other people or chance will write them for you. On this model, the influence of things that make things salient or present options to you is huge [see post a couple above]

***

A really good collection of imaginative aids

***

What if I try to follow all the common advice for a week? I think it just goes past me usually, if it sounds common, without me noticing that i haven't done it. e.g. 'power of positive visualization'.

***


'once called into creation, it hungers eternally' - https://stackingthebricks.com/how-blogs-broke-the-web/
indeed, seems like entities are created instrumentally, then go on to live like end goals. e.g. people make an institute or a company, then it is easier to do their own will by forwarding its wants than by starting again ever, so they energize it to pursue its own specific thing. Or a law is brought in which sends money their way under particular circumstances, then they work to keep those circumstances in place, and to keep the law in place, over trying to make a different law
this suggests to me that 'agents' of the relevant kind are maybe less like a stable set than we usually think of them, and more like fleeting constructs that can appear with different values than the existing set even without the creation of new organisms or with recklessness
it also suggests a cool new way of understanding the world may be at hand, though I'm not sure quite what it is

post in general seems like a good example of a tool that makes one thing easier than another really pushing the world in that direction, per paul's post
and also related to my thoughts before about how what happens doesn't in fact seem that driven by 'values' so much as by what is easy

this all makes me feel like I could be thinking well about such things as my job, and it  could be awesome, and I could be basically a professional blogger/writer

***

the stuff about screwtape letters and EA and goals and entities from retreat

***

there are subtler differences between different formats, than does it post chronologically. What are you claiming by posting it? I feel like blog posts shouldn't be updated without note, because it is a claim to be a take from a particular time. If you still have it up now, and it no longer represents your views, you have no obligation to update it, because it is isn't claiming to be that, and in fact is claiming not to be that. You are also making a claim about it being true (not so in an overtly fiction publication), and about how important it is.

a thing i was always frustrated by wrt crossposting on LessWrong say - it is very different for me to crosspost my blog and for LW to crosspost it without my asking. And the latter is better, for me. In the former case, LW is my requested audience, so I am writing to them. I am claiming that my post is good enough for them. I am asking for a microphone to say whatever shit. In the latter case, I am talking to whoever I want - God, let's say - and people decide they want to listen in, and I don't stop them, I'm not making a claim about it being worth their time.

this is somewhat modified by my whole blog being crossposted rather than having to decide for each post, but still it is a bit hard, and changes my behavior in ways I wish it didn't. Probably I should just treat it as 'I'm writing what I want, LW can tell me if they don't like it, and it can be detached from LW and that will be fine'.

something about AI Impacts and how there is a push toward blogging there.

something about AI Impacts and how there is a push toward usual formats there.

I kind of hate substack, in spite of very little interaction with it, so that's interesting. I think it is related to:
1. about having private discussions vs. open online discussion, and I viscerally hate the latter (looking at you, google doc writers). Like I just don't even want to read the private discussions, because it encourages them, and it means I can't participate as much in the open discussion.
2. it means the author is writing *to* a specific audience they have made an agreement with, like an email with a large 'to' field, which feels then small and parochial and unambitious. Like if Oscar Wilde had been funny at a party instead of writing down his thoughts. I couldn't get behind that.

I guess these are reasons I hate social media in general. But social media makes sense, because people are lazy cowards, which is understandable. They don't want their words to be shown to people, or even stick around long enough for the people who saw them to find them again later. They want to be Oscar Wilde talking down the toilet, and if they aren't, they will be quiet. That's ok because it is their leisure time, and it would be fine for them to just stare into space or to make mandalas and destroy them, and they aren't asking for social credit for it. But Substack writers are putting in a lot of time and attention and actually making a go of it, and it seems cowardly and provincial to do it behind a paywall. (I think it wouldn't seem so to me if it was just that each reader had to pay a small price for the article - it is more the subscription model, where there is a specific ongoing ingroup for it. Isn't that the same as a book where you buy all the thoughts at once? Somehow not, in my mind.)

I want to be part of the public discussion. But why do I hate other people for not wanting that? Perhaps I fear that they will attract the public discussion anyway, to their private little elite box. And even if I am invited and can pay for entry, the inside won't be the public discussion that I wanted—it will be a party, a social group in time, talking to itself—and the outside won't be either, because people will know that it isn't the 'real' discussion. The town square is in the box, reduced. And I want the town square.


How private discussions kill open discussions, (e.g. on AI safety, on physics, on policy?)

1. people suspect there is a cool private discussion about X that they are not invited to, so they don't bother acting like they are part of the discussion of X: learning about it, talking about it. For one thing, their participation doesn't seem like it is valuable to the world. But also, they expect their attempted participation to embarrass them, because everyone who is in on the privatee discussion will see that they are out of the know and attempting to cluelessly blather on about it anyway.

2. If you are in the private discussion, and also want to have a public discussion, you can't mention the stuff you learned in the private discussion. Which is just going to make it hard to say anything, because your view is going to be different from the one you can publicly present reasons for. So you are kind of spoiled for the public discussion. For this reason, I'm inclined to just not read the private discussions.

3. Things that have been said in the private discussion are less valuable and appealing to write up for the public discussion, because a) part of the value has been got, b) potentially a larger part of the social credit or personal satisfaction has been got. i.e. once everyone you know has said your thought was cool, you don't get that much more value from a thousand other people liking it, and once a thousand people have liked it, you don't feel that much better if ten thousand people do. But probably most of the benefit to the world is happening at each step.

4. Private discussions often suck up the better discussants, so they are no longer in the public arena, making the public discussion worse, so that other people also leave. (It seems for instance that gentleman scientists are not a thing any more, perhaps because the most accomplished of them moved to academies and expensive journals, and others found themselves left out with the cranks, and no longer found it worth taking part.)

This can be good or bad. Killing a public discussion can be good if the public discussion is worthless, dangerous, discrediting to the better private discussion, or hard to distinguish from the better private discussion to those who should take advice from it (e.g. it is harder for a layperson to figure out what is true about psychology, where everyone is willing to discuss, than say hand physiology, where all of the discussion is probably academic.) It seems more likely to be bad in cases where information on a topic is widespread, ideas from the topic should be integrated into many lives, progress is being made in general, and it is not hard to distinguish informed from uninformed discussion.



titles: 'on the consequences of genre on the internet', 'writing on the internet'

is there something where on the internet you can have any form - you don't have to stick to 'book', 'short story', 'play', so maybe the gaps get filled in. But it is somehow worse, or maybe just hard to do, because the expectations that came with the specific forms were helpful in setting up constraints and expectations that 'allowed leverage with which to get meaning' (says my brain, but what does that mean, quite?)

There is also this dynamic where people always find it too embarrassing to post; too hard to write something good enough. So they want the form to make it less embarrassing for them to post - they write on Facebook instead of on a blog, they try to write lots of short unembarrassing posts, and so on. And I feel like it is somehow a downward escalator. In the new place, there is a new expectation for how often or easily to post, because the bar is now lower, and it is still too hard? I don't understand what is going on here.

There are always forces for not posting things, for posting things more privately, or more informally, or with more claims to be nothing. This is worse overall, but it is a tragedy of the commons. I think the thing to do is to shame such things. Which is easy, in the sense that they arise from cowardice. But hard in that you don't want to punish people for writing nothing, so you sort of have to disincentivise small amounts of writing. I guess you can just positively incentivize as you go up. Maybe treat low-vulnerability writing as kind of like a bike with training wheels - cool that you are doing that rather than not knowing how to ride a bike at all, but if you are still doing it ten years later, it's a bit of a laugh. I think I naturally have feelings like this around these things at least a bit.

seems like facebook gathering things you will like vs. a blogger gathering things you will like might be worse in ways, but former is much more prolific and smooth and flashy to interact with, so that's the way the world will go. If there was a steady source of content picked out for you by a good human collector, would people pay for it?

***

Amy Hoy [describes](https://stackingthebricks.com/how-blogs-broke-the-web/) the blog format (chronologically indexed freeform thoughts) as having taken over other written forms on the early internet, because software for putting up blog posts smoothly appeared before software for smoothly making a personal encyclopedia, for instance.



***

'a novel is not like a map, so how does simulating writing one work?'

'a brain is not like a factory (?)''

***

anesthesia

***

Joe Carlsmith, [09.01.21 02:14]
Instrumental things are good

On the instrumentality of personal relationships and thriving

Suppose that the best thing to do in life, for the good of the universe, is a [combination](https://meteuphoric.com/2018/05/14/personal-relationships-with-goodness/) of investing in your own thriving and relationships, and working directly on the betterment of the universe. That would be a relief, because you probably have a dogged and unrelenting urge for attending to your own thriving and relationships, and it would be a pity to have to fight it forever (especially while you were alone and not thriving).

But something remains unsatisfying in this worldview, because now your most cherished relationships and beautiful experiences are just instrumental to your later productivity. Which doesn't feel right, or good to say, or true to how you would like to feel about them, or do feel about them. You don't want your relationship with your true love to be 'about' an anticipated productivity multiplier, or for your children's lives to be a hit-or-miss attempt at adjusting your mental state. If your communion with the wild beauty is an exercise for xxx. If your art is only ever for the purpose of xxx your mind, can you ever experience art that is ambitious? If your meditation is about being 5% happier, what is your relationship with becoming enlightened? That it might make you 20% happier? Has everything lost its moral xxx and color? Can you really experience the moral piquancy of a story, while considering the only real morality involved to be the pages' use as fodder in the re-energizing of a workhorse?

Alienated from the warmth of home life, while others prepare for Christmas for Christmas' sake, do you want to enact the forms of it as a half-hearted productivity hack? Caught up in a song perhaps you briefly hunger to really believe in whatever the others are singing about, but confound that social pressure! You know that in the end, there is nothing to really believe in but that final greater good. So you play pretend amidst the confused and empty reverie, theorizing that the acting out of these forms should be of use, since socialization and celebration are favorable to human productivity; calling vaguely on Chesterton. And alas! It is unfairly difficult to really socialize or to celebrate, without common experience of the situation to socialize over, or anything to genuinely celebrate; but only a vacuumous locus of celebration appointed into half-existence by a demand to experience celebration's salubrious effects. This seems like a recipe for alienation and half-heartedness. And that's no good for productivity! Shit! Also, honestly, it doesn't sound very good. Are we stuck? Does seeking the most good rudely cut you out of all sorts of good? It could do.

But is this picture necessary or correct? Let us lay out and pin down what it means for your relationship with your brother, say, to be 'instrumental'. The primary thing seems to be that counterfactually, if it weren't the case that having the relationship was ultimately helpful for doing work, you wouldn't be having it (assuming within this exploration that you are in fact ultimately loyal to the good of the universe).

Is this at odds with there also being final value to the relationship? Or of its final value and not its instrumental value being what you experience in it?

Consider an alternate description of the situation.

You could spend all of your time doing things that are of fundamental, final value&mdash;looking into the eyes of your beloved, holding your children, appreciating the sheer muscularity of tigers, reeling at the stars, watching documentaries about Ancient China, playing the mouth organ, fucking in hotel hot tubs. This would all be genuinely and non-instrumentally valuable.

But it turns out that you can get more of all this sort of thing, total, in the world, if you sacrifice some of it for various harder expeditions to move the levers of history and put more potential for value in the hands of others. For instance, instead of spending the day playing with your child, you can spend the day compiling statistics that will help a law be passed that will reduce the chance of a global catastrophe nulling all possibility of any future person playing with their children.

But for various reasons, you can't give up everything of final value to yourself for more final value elsewhere - these activities of final value also have instrumental value in various ways, plus you just get tired and can't trade all time for work. Talking to your friends also informs you and inspires you and makes you happy and energetic, which means that you would just have nothing to gain by cutting it all out for other less-helpful-on-the-margin instrumental activities.

It would seem strange to say then that your talking to your friend is merely instrumental. It is one of those remaining things in your life that represents real final value, and isn't just instrumental! Sure, it has instrumental value too. And it is true that you wouldn't do it if it didn't. But that doesn't mean that the goodness you experience in it is somehow instrumental. It also doesn't mean that if your friend wasn't instrumentally useful, you wouldn't like them or enjoy their company. It is just that you might have to sacrifice it, in spite of that.

That is:

1. Whether you do an activity, and whether you enjoy it are different, and can have different counterfactual behavior.

2. Counterfactual behavior is not the same as quality of experience. It might be that you only get to spend time with your mother because she helps you look after your child, but that you enjoy every aspect of her presence. It might be that you only go to the bakery because they sell bread and you need to buy bread, but that you genuinely experience the joy of the baker's smile, and that that experience is not at all about bread.

Perhaps an uncomfortable thing in these cases is that you do not value your mother's presence or the baker's smile *enough* to spend your time on them without the added benefit of childcare or bread. But I don't yet see that that's so bad, recalling that childcare and bread are very important, and that what you are finally buying with your time is even more possibility of such things than you are giving up, and that giving it up is a true sacrifice for that, not a thing you don't care about. You are at Christmas to genuinely celebrate Christmas and all that it stands for, because it happens that you haven't been called on to sacrifice that for something even greater.

It's like if you get to go to an expensive concert to look after your wheelchair-bound uncle, you can entirely love the music itself, even though your opportunity to be there is counterfactually dependent on circumstances. The music is not 'about' holding the wheelchair. The need to hold the wheelchair just paid for part of the cost of getting to experience the music. Nor is your pleasure in the music about your uncle's pleasure, which was the cause of your presence being requested.

ow it relates to the thing that seems bad about the situation

Joe Carlsmith, [09.01.21 02:14]
Signaling overt

***

My tentative theory of computation is 'A computes if its state can be '

***

why is it nice to post on own blog vs. lw post

***

what is this 'mass hysteria' people fear? e.g. in 'don't tell the public, they'll freak out'?

***

why do people think that if they do a dangerous thing twice its evidence that its safe?

***

a story about siblings in a world where there are no bad actors any more, because of genetics, and the big brother tells the little that there used to be people who just looked like people but were evil like in the movies, just walking the streets. You wouldn't know if you had one in your own family, except that they would probably hurt you soon enough. They get on extremely well and nothing goes wrong and they decide to do something meaningful for their mother, and it isn't clear if it will work so there is tension, and they are never flippant and care deeply about what they are doing, so that the stakes are high, then it does go well. She looks the right way and sees them and their minds meet and it is more beautiful than they imagined. In the background everyone meets eyes in the street with love, and so on. It's weird to read the old books and watch the old movies, because even the good characters are as children, angry and selfish and unloving.


***

a story of a man watching a woman he lives with, who is not at home there, and he can see how homely it is, and knows she doesn't live in that world. Her hand lingers before taking her spatula out of her traveling box. She smiles in a closed, decisive way. Unbelievable that the rightness of her every lip movement and gesture is somehow in his head, and not suffused in her, and them. In his head, and not deep in the living room around them.

A warm and loving account of a situation that might be hold and painful.

Not initially based on me loving Joe from afar, but maybe relevant.

He sees potentially painful things and doesn't shy away or be cold or pained. He looks at them lovingly and openly.

***

its important to learn not to be embarrassed when you are right.

appreciating joe in 2018-2019 maybe taught me this more, in that I could see that my rightness was so much better than not being embarrassed.

***

Sometimes I think about the research topic, 'how to build an AI out of a human brain' (or 'how to run an AI on a human brain'). I suppose this might be 'rationality'. You have all these potential brain moves, and some patterns of them that the brain tends to do out of the box. But you can also change them, by experiential learning or conscious discussion.

What is the best AI that you can run on a human brain?


***

MDMA why so bad seeming?

""


- words aren't really like logical propositions that build meaning, they are more like brush strokes that build meaning. Where the particular stroke doesn't have an entirely specified meaning, but together they gesture at a thing? no that's not what brush strokes are like either.



***

'freakout'/'scaring the public' as a consequence of e.g. talking about AI, talking about covid early. I have never understood what the actual downside is.

***
Context: a minor subplot this week has been my ongoing suspense about when some Mewe snickerdoodle flavored peanut butter would show up at my house. Several different orders of it were due at some point, since about every fourth time I was particularly wishing I had some, I would order some more. But my credit card had been declined due to reaching the end of its life, and my bank hadn't sent a new one, and there were days of different significance to Amazon, and non-standardly long shipping times. And so it was that several times I went outside to just check that it hadn't come, and returned empty handed.

To be clear, it's not that I have nothing good going on in my life. It's actually so good lately that I'm embarrassed to write about it. And it's not that I have nothing good to eat. My housemate's cooking skill and xxx is xxx. It's just that I really like eating MeWe.

I recently learned that there are actually many flavs https://www.mewenutrition.com/collections/adult-nutrition

but most for children? and for adults, they are like 'maybe good if you have chemo?'

and i'm like, why no selling point that it migth just be super delicious? I mean, that is selling point with almost all foods, and almost all foods are not as delicious as this.

woman: why is this just for babies, and malnourished peolpe in Africa, and people with chemotherapy, and...

man: special people? :P

woman: or people who just like delicious things, like normal?

man: laughs. you like eating baby food tho, so not so surprising is it.

woman: humm. yes, not surprising I like it. Surprising other people don't! But yeah, also why they don't like baby food?

man: ask internet?

This story brought to you by MeWe! Arguably on the frontier of most delicious foods. Made by the same factory that makes [Plumpy'Nut](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plumpy%27nut)


In other news, people talk about whether to replace Facebook with MeWe, and I'm like hell yes, but they mean the NextGen social network and I mean the snickerdoodle peanut butter.

***

good to break down AI situations into scenarios and what distinguishes them, which can be things we can affect, and things we can't. We probably want to affect the affect ones, and perhaps learn which one we are in for the other ones. Seems like a good thing to have in a quantitative format.

e.g. (maybe blog post too) World where alignment is only thing that matters vs. world where quantitative differences in other axes make a difference. In former, big plot is just 'do we get it aligned', in second, big plot is finding and pushing enough of these quantitative levers.

***

what is going on in the world broadly? (see review)

maybe put list up permanently on blog (but then what kind of thing is that?)

maybe put list into a google doc also, and just open it to anyone to comment on (what happens if you do that? somehow it feels dangerous. Has anyone done that?)

***

There are all these other worlds out there, where some feature of MySQL or something seems like the bees knees, such that even if someone patiently explained to me what MySQL was, and why the thing was important, I wouldn't get it. That seems like it should be significant somehow.

***

If we just internalized all the externalities, how would that be? AI wise (see conv of other day, about which i wrote nothing)


***
imagine if you want a lot of high up walking, and when you were near the bottom of a mountain, you hardly walked at all, because you were like 'every step I take is really low on the mountain, so my steps are worth nothing. i like walking high up.'

this is what not treating your time as valuable in undergrad is like. You don't get a big direct payoff for each step now, but there is a certain distance to the place where every step will matter a lot, and it is steps that get you there. There are a certain number of hours that take you to where your time is hugely valuable, and it is hours that get you there.

(there is also a looser analogy with times when you feel like everything is a pile of shit. You don't do anything, becasue where you are feels bad, even though doing things is what gets you somewhere better. THis is more complicated, because there are places to be that also wreck your perception of the situation, so you need to act on faith in the abstract understanding that your immediate perceptions of how unredeemably bad things are is wrong.)

***

If I were to write a children's book, I think I would try to communicate to resolve some of the basic misunderstandings between parents and children. e.g. why should children listen to parents, when parents can't explain themselves? It took me until my twenties to understand that. Maybe late twenties.

***
story about a woman stroking her dog who was subject to every reason for her actions not mattering (moral non-realism, infinite ethics, living in a simulation, being a Boltzmann brain..) but she is sort of sad, and it seems like it matters a lot

***


***
the unsophistication of straightforwardly right views e.g. anti death, anti xrisk. i feel it for consequeentialism.

***
a long thing about officialness in the style of notes on camp
- all the things about good writing joe notes in comments are contra officialness

***
Things we don't know about this:
- seems clear enough that a perfect agent should have a utility function (but it also does have one by defn, so idk what should means. I guess that an almost perfect agent, under some other optimizing processes, gets made into a perfect one). But the things we actually make won't be perfect agents at all.
- So big questions remain, whether approximate agents are relevantly similar to perfect agents, whether they move toward them, whether there are other good concepts for the agent-reminiscent physical systems, similar to e.g. sphexishness.

***

people all have information overload, so can't pay attention to ca knows this causes cancer thing
- related to screaming more and more thing

***

so much insurance effort
yet so little info about risks from danger

***

its not about being female, it's about being non-masculine in specific ways
i.e. lots of men also discriminated against
saying this:
- lets us understand better
- lets us problem-solve, e.g. why does it happen? People take their conversational cues from things like confidence, loudness, deepness of voice (low stress). Can reason about how to adjust - e.g. if there are situational variables that can be adjusted, can do that (e.g. larger people sit further back or lower down, quieter people have microphones)

***

to the extent people have implicit biases around gender and race say, they probably don't have any affordance for not having them. Some of them come out of the basic perceptual machinery that causes us to have accurate beliefs in general (e.g. the impression that black people are more likely to be criminals). As much as they might believe that this information should be excluded from their decisions, decisions are not some explicit thing they do on reams of paper, adding in the considerations with a calculator. It's a fast, mental, process, which doesn't offer obvious slots for adjustments. They could try to discard all judgments about people, and act similarly to all, but a) that would be a disaster, and b) its not clear that they could succeed.

A popular method for dealing with this problem is to blame everyone every time they have the wrong perception, and hope that eventually this will stop them from having it. This seems to rest on one of the following hypotheses:

1) People choose to have implicit biases consciously, and so will likely choose not to if either the punishment is high enough, or they come to understand that they are bad.
2) Perception is fairly responsive to incentives. For instance, if every time I see a mirage I get an electric shock, then I will stop seeing the mirage. Or, it is responsive to perceptions of rightness, so that if each time I see a mirage I feel really guilty, I'll stop seeing the mirage.

Neither of these seems to me to be obvious, even that likely to be true.

It seems to me that we should distinguish a) people being intentionally discriminatory against groups, e.g. claiming that some groups are more worthy than others, supporting discriminatory policies, making jokes in poor taste; and b) people having undesirable perceptions or other implicit biases that aren't accessible to conscious intervention, that they do not want. I think we should treat the former as reason for moral judgment and shame, and the latter as a systematic problem that we should try to fix together, without anyone feeling bad about it. We should investigate why we keep seeing the mirage, and take practical steps to improve our vision - for instance, change the lighting or practice distinguishing mirages and real water.

Some things I think this might look like, for gender, which I'm more familiar with:

Some hypotheses for why people listen to women less in conversations:
1. In the intuitive dance of distributing speaking time and attention in conversation, people naturally and implicitly follow strategies favoring people who are more confident, louder, have lower voices, are bigger, project dominance and assertiveness. There may be sensical reasons for these heuristics, including confidence correlating with correctness, low voice correlating with absence of fear, and loud and assertive voices being physically easier to hear and to follow when two people are talking at once. But some people are given systematically less attention because of characteristics they have in ways that don't mean they should have less attention. For instance, it may well be that Bob is more confident when he is more right, so it is all things equal better to listen to Bob when he is more confident than Bob when he is less confident. But Alice is always less confident than Bob, even though she is equally right. So extending your within-Bob expectation of confidence correlating with correctness to Alice and Bob will fail, leading you to listen to Bob all the time, even though he is more wrong half the time.

A person listening to Alice and Bob talk just gets a vague sense that Bob is to be listened to here over Alice, but it doesn't appear in their mind with a written explanation, so they don't know if this is because Alice is giving off legitimate signs of foolishness or untrustworthiness say, or whether she is just having her non-informative feminine characteristics misinterpreted by their perceptive machineryxxx.

What could we do to make this better?

Either 1) try to make our perceptions more correct, or 2) give up on using them at all for conversational time allocation.

1)
- adjust other signs of confidence etc in the environment:
- put quieter people in more prominent seats
- conduct conversations with differently adjusted microphones (even ones that change pitch, if the likely hilarity of this isn't too costly)
- try alternate communication mechanisms, e.g. it seems to me that a big part of the problem is in deciding who gets to say the next thing, when someone has said something. Quiet people are at no disadvantage in advancing a point by text, so in combination voice-text calls, lately I have seen quieter people making points in the text, when they might have had trouble getting attention by beginning a sentence verbally. In ANU Philosophy department, I recall there being hand signal system, where if you want to make a new point, you raise your hand, or if you want to make a followup point to the current point, you raise a finger. If you just want to agree, instead of saying anything at all, you make another hand gesture. In my experience hand gestures are easier for everyone to carry out perceptibly in spite of others also doing them.
- give spaces more conducive to spreading out in a confident fashion to smaller people
- use adjustable height seats, so everyone's head is at the same level
- have conversations with headsets that adjust the delay so that

2)
- use an explicit conversation allocation system (e.g. rh one) Probably more appropriate for otherwise explicit contexts than for e.g. conversation over pizza.
-

 (and therefore perhaps more right or more positioned to lead the group? I'm not sure, but it is plausible that this is a reasonable heuristic),

***

The current dynamic proceeds by:
1) there are things that everyone does that everyone considers very bad
2) there is a strategy of applying lots of social shame to these behaviors
4) everyone feels guilty, and that in particular they might on the bad side of some historical conflict
5) to affirm the side they believe in, to avoid being more guilty, they support and forward the current strategy - the guilting. To not support it would be to be on the bad side.
6) as more people join the guilting, more guilt is applied
7) (the well intentioned guilt just doesn't have a route to affect the behaviors)
8) lots of people feel even more guilty
9) lots of people try even harder to do the right thing, i.e. guilt others
10) etc, and also some people are put out by the guilting continually directed their way, or at people they care about, for things they don't appear to be doing, or they didn't think was wrong, or they have no way to change, and become angry.

more exciting to feel like you are in a historic moral tale, fighting the baddies among us, speaking truth to power. And there is some of that to be done. But if you actually want a future where these systematic effects fade out, my bet would be on us all taking a step back and out of 'identity politics' and try to pragmatically and boringly address the issues.

***

interesting thing about the world is that everyone has ever lived in modernity. In 1600, there was unprecedented technological progress and scientific understanding. Everything was shiny and new. They were at the brink of the future.

***

Two people are more like a scheming agent in ways than one person. e.g. if I have individual employees who report to me, I don't expect them to get any 'ideas in their heads'. Whereas if you get them to meet with one another, then they come back making suggestions for how things should be run differently. (I think? That's my vague sense, but maybe I'm wrong) I think with two people, you say some of your thoughts aloud, and then if the other person agrees, it seems more natural to move to explicitly planning to do something about it, rather than the idea drifting off again. Or something like that. So I'm inclined, as boss, to meet one-on-one with my employees, so that disagreements with my plans are not formed and strengthened elsewhere then brought to me. (I don't know if this is good, it is just an urge.)


***

some randomish goals you could have look like trying to turn the world into paperclips, and others look like performing particular actions on things reliably say (e.g. making an image larger if it is handed to you), and probably others look like something else. How common are these in the space? Or more broadly, how common are ones that we would recognize as taking over the world to get some physical arrangement of matter?

Seems like for one thing we are not getting a random one, we are getting a random one that is motivated to do a particular thing for us, e.g. make a sandwich. So even if there were a lot that would just sit there for some reason (e.g. goals are evidently not achievable or likely to be worsened by efforts), we won't see them. b

***
lil pots

***

my experience of night time

***


(I suppose there is some question of whether the cafes should do it proactively, or respond to demand. I claim that they should do it proactively. I'm somewhat surprised that there also doesn't seem to be demand.)

Don't they care about the blood on their hands?

I've historically been pretty pro-Starbucks, but I think after the pandemic I'm going to have trouble going back to these places, knowing what they did, in the same way that after WWII I might have trouble hanging out with my German friends who were in the military, even if they didn't personally cause the whole thing. They did their part for it. And these cafes and restaurants did their part for amplifying the covid catastrophe.


Supposing I'm right that huge amounts of value are being destroyed in this way,

***

And at present I have given up on going to Starbucks, because it seems to involve being indoors with about six other people for long enough to wait your turn to have a discussion with a barista about the fact that you ordered coffee.

***

(My understanding, from my own observation plus anecdotes about Bryan Caplan talking about things, is that the human brain is surprisingly bad at generalizing, so my guess is that this is very helpful even for explicit beliefs.)

***
This reminds me of how in practice it is hard for people to be vastly more valuable than one another, when they are  tangled up. e.g. for a girlfriend to have much worse value time than a boyfriend.


***

oliver sipple


***

Biden says 'reunite' and people say 'you want us to reunite with white nationalists? No.'
I think a better interpretation is 'left and right reunite, and everyone dislike haters'
most conservatives aren't white nationalists and most liberals aren't like the worst of the left being displayed around

the reasonable people should reunite, over genuine uncertainties over the right trade-offs between markets and intervention, or social roles, say, and stop being led by the excesses, and should have pity but not leadership positions for those who have lost the way on either side

***


How much is the ant economy worth?

***

things that should exist: gmail auto-unsubscribes unless you actively tell it not to
or, places can only send you three emails before they get auto-marked as spam unless you did something
or, to send more than three emails, places have to spend money, unless you give them your repeat email token
or, places have to pay to get emails to you, but are reimbursed if you receive more than ten from them before clicking unsubscribe
or, each time a new person emails you, you are asked if you want these as the main message from gmail

***

futarchy is about prediction markets and also vote oon valuse don't voote on beliefs, and the latter is an awesome idea on its own
being elitist -> different kidns of elitism; nobody wants uninformed people to make the factual decisions, and we have a lot of infrastructure for avoiding that
you could slot in other ways of voting on vaules, doing something else on beliefs
hard becasue need to trust system to really answer the question about beliefs, rather than doing it wrong to serve own values, but are there other ways to deal with that?

***

does anyone actually think that SSC is a white nationalist or something? probably not? so what is the question here?
is the message just that even if you aren't a white nationalist, you are not even allowed to think about these questions?

can anyone tell me why it is ok to discriminate based on race, in the 'correct' direction? To my simpleminded understanding, this just sounds bad
I know that it's in vogue, but not being some kind of critical theory intellectual, i don't know why.
And if I don't know why something that looks like racism is fine, and am just being told it is by a bunch of elites,
isn't the right thing to fight it? Or to demand an answer?

interesting to me that not allowed to ask things, probably e.g. why is this ok? without implicitly saying it is not ok

what if I asked a bunch of people to point me to the canonical writings on why it is fine to discriminate based on race in some directions
then if they don't know them, I can be like, 'yes people stick to PC, but they actually don't know why, so even if it is right, for all they know it is the same as any other belief by thought oppression.'
