name this competition plus externality thing

negative feedbacks, different incentives makes a difference; 'agent agnostic'; selection pressures

selection effects and agent agnostic

perfect competition: all vaule that isn't existence gets destroyed eventually


***

seems like humans do much better from having alliances than from being smart. does that help us with AI?


seems like for current jobs in particular, we usually want agents that are not too power hungry - i.e. we want them to do some tasks we set and not try to get more control because then they might not do our tasks. interesting.

is there some way we can analyze neural nets to discern what 'goals' they have?

can we just reason about how complex a human is, i.e. how hard to find, and so how easy it would be to run across something like that by mistkae in a neural net training thing?

maybe the biggest question is whether things trained to be pretty close to our values are likely to be extremely different from our values, via these things about mesaoptimizers (e.g. that it is easier to be trained to have some other values and do the thing instrumentally)

seems like you can train against having other vaules and doing the thing instrumentally, by offering resources for all other goals OR doing the thing you are training for

seems like you can train against having other values and doing the thing instrumentally by changing up the circumstances a lot, so that if you had different goals, you would do different things instrumentally, and the only thing that acts a certain way accross the board is the one that actuall yvalues it

seems good to lay out the game theory of:
a) competitive situation with externality
b) people selling future that they don't care about, or whatever

The real success of humanity has been success in sharing progress that we make

What if we made more progress in sharing progress that we make?

We clearly suck at it (e.g. SFF hardly makes use of all the past thining, all these decisions about e.g. whether to go to party sick, etc)

***

Thing about how ea community can’t do things on certain scales
