---
layout: post
title: "POST TITLE"
date: 2021-01-xx 10:30:00 -0700
tags: CATEGORY-1 CATEGORY-2
comments: true
image:
summary:
---
Natural selection is often ascribed 'goals' for humanity, and humanity is often accused of falling down on them. The particular charge, if I understand, is of sub-maximal procreation. If we cared at all about the genetic proliferation that our 'creator' wanted for us, then this time of riches would not also be a time of only children and expensive dogs. But our failure is understandable, because instead of a deep draw toward genetic survival, natural selection has merely fitted us out with myriad suggestive urges: passing penchants for xxx[passing desires to put appendages in orifices, and]

This is generally floated as an illustrative warning about artificial intelligence. The moral is that if you make a system by making a fuck-ton of systems and systematically destroying all the ones that don't do the thing you want, then the thing you are left with might merely do what you want for the moment while current circumstances persist, rather than being endowed with a consistent desire for what you actually had in mind.

Observing acquaintences dispute this point recently, it occurred to me that humans are actually weirdly aligned with natural selection, more than I can account for. 

Natural selection in its broadest, truest, sense doesn't care about genes. Genes are a convenient substrate for getting somewhere neat via natural selection powered evolution. But natural selection just favors things that tend to exist. Things that start existing, and that having started, survive. Genes that promote procreation and survival, but also ideas that are thought of and talked of, tools that are conceivable and copyable, elements that appear and don't dissolve,  Or rather, natural selection says the things that you see in the world are those things that survive best in the world



This seems like a pretty obvious point, so I'm not put off it by it not applying that well to the example. But I think it doesn't. 

***


People often hand-wavily think of evolution as having 'goals' for human behavior: something like, 'promoting the survival of genes'. People around me also often note that humans have lost their way relative to evolution's 'goals', and that this might be relevant to how AI systems will behave in the long term, if we carefully select them to apparently fulfill our goals.

The contention is that humans have way fewer children than they could have, because evolution didn't make them actually care about prolonging their lineage, it made them care about the satisfaction of sex and the meaning of companionship. 